[22:13] PARTICIPANT 1:And the company needs to be eighty-five percent sure that if we said this person is a dog walker, that he was actually walking with his dog. And I think before this specific team settled on an Agile trajectory, it was very hard to get some stuff on the product backlog. It was very hard to get them to move in a different direction because they had a fixed path. We're talking about a data science team here. If they start on something, they have to research and they're gone for a few weeks and then they come back and maybe they have an idea, maybe it doesn't work, and they have to start all over again. So that kind of steered themselves without too much guidance. So, we decided to get in there and really work with

them, try to explain to them why we think Agile has some added value even in data science. And in the end, we were successful in finding a way for them to work with experiments.

[23:17] PARTICIPANT 1:So, there's no way to deliver a working machine learning algorithm every week or so. It's almost impossible, but you can try and make experiments with certain notebooks. I'm not sure how much technical detail you want here.
23:40] PARTICIPANT 1:OK, sure. So usually the team would have to build a whole machine learning pipeline to build a whole algorithm to output certain results for a segment. And then it would take weeks. I mean, you need training data, you have to label it, you have to train the model. Wait for the output to tweak everything, and go over and over it again. And there are kind of these mindset of doing it this way because we've always done it this way. But the client really wanted some feedback a bit faster than six months. Maybe we have something, we want to be involved. That was the right moment to get the team to think about how we can deliver something, some value to the client a bit quicker. So, we change it up, not even massively. It turned out they were already internally doing a lot more than they showed on the outside. I think once you start probing development teams, you'll find out pretty quickly that when they talk amongst themselves, they're always talking about the things they just did, about the results they managed to get. And in this instance, they were already working with Python notebooks, for example, and sharing intermediate results. But they didn't share with management or with clients because the results were hard to explain.

[25:09] PARTICIPANT 1:The results weren't good enough. They didn't want to commit to anything. So, in the end, we basically just found out that there was a whole box of, not deliverables, but interesting information, added value for the clients just sitting there that was not being shared, just because they thought it had no value. And by just reframing a few things here and there, by making them think about, OK, how can we explain this over and over again quickly, efficiently? How can we show these results in a quick way? Like just print them out to a PDF, add two lines of explanation and give it to the client. We enabled them to share more with clients, internal teams, and management on a weekly, daily basis about their progress.

Whereas usually there would be a request for a feature that would go into the team and six months later, we would hear it didn't work. And then we had to start digging about what they were doing. We now had a good cycle going on every week. We would get a status report, some graphs, some insights on how this worked, how this didn't work, and this is the quality we're getting now. We are aiming for two percent more accuracy by next week by using these heuristics. And just everyone was way more involved in the development process rather than five data scientists mining through data and approaches by themselves in the logbooks.
[27:02] PARTICIPANT 1:There was another team where we kind of had a junior, so I also try to help some junior project managers to guide the teams. And we put a junior project manager on a certain team and he just read the Scrum guide and decided to give an hour long presentation about how to do Scrum to a team of senior developers. One of the most senior developers of our own company, he had fifteen, twenty years of development experience. And they all kind of sat through the meeting and then the guy started shooting out, stand up meeting invites, planning invites, basically booking the whole team's agenda full of meetings.

And in the beginning, I think they joined one or two daily stand ups and then nobody started showing up anymore because apparently, he was just talking the whole time with the team. I think that's fine for the project manager. It's fine to walk with your head against the wall. I think that was a textbook failed implementation of how not to give Scrum to developers.
[28:39] PARTICIPANT 1:Yeah, very much a lack of engagement. And there was already an existing distrust of any buzzwords related to Agile and Scrum and Kanban in that team in the first place because they are very senior. They already have heard about it a thousand times, about how it's going to magically fix all the development problems and make everything great. And that is the point where you have to talk to the developers and work with them rather than give fancy presentations about the latest Scrum guideposts you read about. So that was one about the implementation. There is also a story about a client where he did the same thing. So, as I said, we kind of label your life based on your G.P.S. location from your phone. But we also made a new branch in two predictions. So, if we know that your routine is usually, you drop your kids off to school, you go to work and then you go home and something minor changes. Maybe we can then start to predict that, hey, you are expecting another kid, or you are changing homes, you are going to live somewhere else. And there was a client who was very interested in this feature. We thought we explained clearly about what they could expect from our weekly updates so that we were going to let the developers take the lead.

[30:11] PARTICIPANT 1:And that was the same case from my previous companies. It would be like an account manager or a client services person. They talk to the client. They put everything in nice fluffy clouds and give it to the client. Well, we are very clear and said, look, you're going to talk to the developers. They will be a bit more direct. They will show you the numbers. The numbers may look a bit less than what you want in the end. But know you are working towards it. And we did a few sessions with them. So, they were in the review sessions for the feature and they got to see the development plan. This is what we did this week. We took this trajectory because we think we're on the right track. This is the quality we have at the moment, this is the accuracy, this is the failure rate. This is what we can expect by next week. And there are pretty quiet in the first meeting because that's kind of normal for clients or contact people that aren't used to the process, they don't really know what to expect. Well, we thought it went fine in general. And I went on for about two hours in those meetings a week. We found out that they had been trying to contact their CEO very aggressively and complaining about how everything is falling in the water.

[31:44] PARTICIPANT 1:Are we going to miss the deadline now that everything is going wrong? How would they feel the team's not on top of things? Just complaining about the lack of results in general. Even though from our perspective, we saw that we were going to make it. We were going to make the deadline and we were going to make the accuracies. It was all going to be fine. The indications we gave to the product person from the client, he sent it through to some people internally and so on and so on. They saw accuracies that were way too low, that they could never use to make money. It all kind of started rolling where everyone was yelling at everyone just due to a lack of misunderstanding. Not really knowing what it is to get a weekly update directly from developers without a lot of rose clouds. So, in the end, I think it all ended up okay. We sat together and explained it to them again. We did decide to just make an executive summary of where we were at every week rather than take them to the review sessions of the feature itself.
[33:36] PARTICIPANT 1:No. I see where it comes from. But I think it's a poor excuse for poor software. I think every system, every team, every approach can deliver poor software. So where would this come from? I would assume that a lot of people that have been in contact with Agile, as the client I just mentioned. They see software in between the delivery dates. They think it's not good.

Where else can it come from? Because certain aspects of Agile are overlooked. They just think it's all about standups and planning meetings. But in the end, we're just doing what we always did, which is Waterfall and deliver a product after six months that the customer hasn't touched, that QA has never seen. That basically came out of nowhere and just popped up.

And then everyone is like, oh, what is this, I've never seen this before. It's not what I asked for. It's totally different from the requirements that I expected. I wouldn't say that Agile by itself delivers poor software, but it may be misunderstood.

[35:00] PARTICIPANT 1:What it will deliver on a frequent basis and due to that, it's interpreted as being better or superior to other systems, because I think there's a lot less sugarcoating in Agile, in my opinion. You should try to involve, the businesspeople that are not used to seeing the low numbers, seeing all the failures, seeing everything that goes wrong, and then thinking that all that's all because Agile and they tried to go too fast. They're not planning enough where they're sitting in meetings too much. I think I've heard everything from all sides, either it's there's no plan, there's no thirty page document of how we're going to tackle this project.

And I've heard the other side, they are doing a four hour planning every week. Why are they wasting so much time on planning? So, it's kind of funny that you're hear all the excuses from both sides. And then you've got people that are very happy with all of the frequent updates, which usually are more technical people. And then the people who say, what is this spam in my e-mail box? What are all these meetings I'm asked to attend every week just to say that, yes, this looks good or no, this is terrible? 
[37:25] PARTICIPANT 1:So, I think in the end, it's all about the people and culture. Hopefully, you recruited great developers and you want to make them do great work, as fast, as easy, as fun, as good as possible. I don't care what you want to call it. I don't care if you want to call it Waterfall, Scrum, Agile. I don't know what else. Tribes. Any kind of buzzword that you want to put on a slide as long as you have people front and center and you don't try to hide behind the processes. That you're clear about the product increments, the features you're delivering.

You're always telling the truth, you don't try to sugarcoat then I think you're on the right track. You can use whatever methodology you like, if there is layers of sugar coating and hiding behind emails and processes and it's not going to work. But some people seem to disagree.
[39:27] PARTICIPANT 1:And then you get it to the whole thing of change management. There's someone, some manager has read a book about Scrum and all of a sudden there is a box of post-its and there it is. We go in the Scrum and they're surprised that three months later and everyone's running around confused and thinks everything's broken. Now, there is a lot of things that can go wrong in a lot of places. But I think that's true for everything. You can do the Waterfall that we've been doing for hundreds of years, tens of years, and I still do it wrong. And the same is true for Agile and the same is true of the next thing. If you haven't talked to everyone, if you haven't thought about how we're going to do this and is everyone on board, you can mess it up. At least in Waterfall you can hide for six months and then you have to explain why that didn't work in, In Agile, you don't have the luxury of hiding for six months.

[40:29] RESEARCHER:You are accountable.

[40:31] PARTICIPANT 1:Yeah, you are accountable. Even in the best case, you only have like three or four weeks before someone will start ringing the alarm bell. So, I think if it is only that, that you gain, you've already gained a lot. At least to get you talking about process and systems.
[41:11] RESEARCHER:Yeah. So basically, I'm interested in software quality in general, how software teams manage to achieve quality. So, if you look at theoretically, there is a gap. What's this gap?

The gap is come from the Agile manifesto itself and the Scrum guides. They are very abstract, and they don't make a direct goal for quality. The Agile manifesto makes a call for excellence, but excellence is very broad, it is very vague. What we wanted to understand is how teams that use Agile handles quality. And not only that, you've been talking about software testing is fine, but software testing does all the quality control. It's making sure that what you are delivering, fits the requirements and fits other standards and other best practices, et cetera. But there are other social and human factors to all of this. You've been talking about collaboration and lastly, you mentioned accountability. All these are enablers that help us work better. When we do work better, we do deliver better quality. We are happier. The peer to peer behavior is enhanced. And we do behave better, and we are happier, we produce better software. So, these are the elements or the enablers we're looking for Agile too. We talked about collaboration, we talked about accountabilities. With other interviewees, we talked about the loop of learning or the ongoing loop of feedback and learning from the feedback and feeding back the feedback and making sure you continuously improve in Agile. That's a quality assurance practice to enable to be transparent and sending feedback.

[43:50] RESEARCHER:So, what I'm trying to understand is to pick up these enablers of quality that are in the process itself other than testing. Because testing itself, it doesn't achieve quality. Like we discussed at the end, there is the human aspect of it. At the end, the people who are making the software. It's not Agile that is making the software. It's the people. So, when you give transparency, for example, is another element that appears in most of my interviews. When there is transparency and everybody is able to see what's happening, people work - I've been told that the work is nice. So, I'm assuming that we produce better deliverables when there is transparency. Why? Because you are accountable for what you do. Everybody sees what you do. So, these are the enablers I'm looking for to understand in these environments and to counter these statements that Agile produces poor software. Well, Agile produces poor software, because you don't collaborate, you don't have transparency, you are not accountable. Your QA team is not engaged from the beginning. It's not empowered. It's sitting somewhere in India and you don't talk to them at all. So, we're bridging that gap that is missing. And the body of knowledge, which is how Agile enables an environment where we can achieve quality.

[45:44] PARTICIPANT 1:Very interesting. So, can I send you an e-mail and then get the paper once it's finished?

[45:51] RESEARCHER:Yes, I think I do have your e-mail from your resumé. Just give me a second. I'm just going to confirm your e-mail. Its [Deleted to preserve the participant anonymity], right?

[46:11] PARTICIPANT 1:Yes right.

[46:13] RESEARCHER:I'll send it to you once it's ready. It may take a few months. It's not a fast process. Unfortunately, academia is very slow. If you don't have other questions for me, we can conclude. Thank you very much.

[46:33] PARTICIPANT 1Thank you, have a great day. [46:34] RESEARCHER:

Enjoy New Zealand. It's a beautiful country.

[46:37] PARTICIPANT 1:Ah yeah, will do.